eBookFormatter version 1.2.6
----------------------------

What is eBookFormatter?
-----------------------

eBookFormatter is a program dedicated to the task of fixing those pesky formatting issues present in a great deal of online text documents, eBooks in text or RTF format, files converted from PDFs, and OCR (Optical Character Recognition, a popular method of retrieving text from PDF and image files) created documents, as well as anything similar in form.

eBookFormatter will allow you to easily convert RTF to plain text for easy editing (or if you don't have an RTF editor), and provide many features related to the resulting text.  Perhaps you used an OCR on a PDF document, and the result was a text file with a line terminator (a newline, carriage return, or both) at the end of every line, preventing you from using formats like justification.  eBookFormatter will strip them away, leaving the text only terminated at the end of each paragraph.

eBookFormatter also includes a sophisticated method of detecting paragraphs, which is approximately 95% accurate in typical text documents, the ability to correct common errors produced by OCR, and much more.

Installing eBookFormatter
-------------------------

eBookFormatter is written in PHP 5.  As such, it can be run on any platform (operating system and hardware independant), but it requires that you have PHP 5 or higher installed on your PC.  The installation is simple:  Visit www.php.net/downloads.php, select the appropriate file, and follow the installation instructions.  

The windows zip package need only be unzipped and the directory containing php.exe added to the PATH environment variable (START  -> right click My Computer -> Properties -> Advanced -> Environment Variables -> select Path and click edit -> type a semicolon followed by the directory path containing php.exe).  Note:  Adding to the PATH variable is not required but will allow you to run a php program from anywhere on the PC by typing PHP <file to run>.  The above method is only garunteed for Windows XP.  For other windows systems, consult the (really really bad) user guide for the location of the PATH variable.

Using eBookFormatter
--------------------

eBookFormatter is a command-line based program.

Usage:  php eBookFormatter.php <input file> <output file> <integer value of function to run>

The integer values are currently 1, 2, or 3.  

Function 1: Assumes <input file> is in plain text format.  This function will read in the file and remove any blank lines.  It will determine the location of paragraphs and tag them.  Then it will preform a series of simple corrections to the text based on common errors in eBook style text documents.  Next the end of line terminators are removed.  Any extra whitespace at the start or end of the paragraph is removed, the paragraph is terminated with two newlines (causing a blank line to be inserted) and the beginning of the paragraph is indented with one tab.  The resulting text is then output to <output file>

Function 2:  Further testing is required, but it is believed that function 2 is currently defunct, replaced by functionality of function 1.

Function 3:  Attempts to remove all RTF formatting in a file.  Still in it's alpha stages, this function may result in some loss of data due to the methods certain programs add the formatting.  The loss of data should be minimal (part of a line in uncommon conditions).  Additionally, the resulting text is very poorly formatted.  It is recommended that function 1 be run following RTF formatting removal.  Until more development is done, use this function at your own risk.

Support
-------

This is freeware.  As such, I am not in any way required to support the software.  However, bug reports, suggestions, and comments are welcome.  If I am able to do so, I will make additions, improvements, and fixes as time goes on.

Uninstalling eBookFormatter
---------------------------

As no installation is required, no uninstallation is required.  Simply delete the folder containing the eBookFormatter files.

Lisence Agreement
-----------------

This software is released under the GNU GPL (General Public Lisence) and is free to use, modify, and distribute so long as a complete copy of the lisence agreement is provided with the software.

Donations
---------

To donate to this or any other of my projects, send a paypal payment to cold_candor@hotmail.com

All donations will be put towards removing obticles preventing me from furthering my projects, i.e. having to work for food :P

Contact Information
-------------------

Copyright 2005 by Eric Shields
cold_candor@hotmail.com
